MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION

Name of the institution shall :PEOPLES WELFARE SOCIETY NOCA 170/2003
Registered Address : The Registered Address of the Institution shall be:

Village/Town: Sreekrishnapuram
Post Office : Sreekrishnapuram 679513
Taluk : Ottapalam
District : Palakkad
State : Kerala

[If there is any changes in the Address, it shall be intimated of Khadi & V.I. commission as well as the Registering Authority of the institution within 15 days from the date on which the change was made]

Area of operation :
The area operation of the institution shall be Whole State of Kerala
Year : The financial year of the Institution would be from 1st April to 31st March, of succeeding year.

Objects

The objects for which the institution is established shall be as follows:
a)To improve the economic, moral and social standards of villagers in the area of operation of the institution.

b)To alleviate poverty and bring about better living condition mutual co operation and unity among the villagers and in general rural development by implementing KVI programmes.

c) To start, encourage, assist and carry on such other activities which are incidental for implementation of KY1 programmes.

d)To start Conduct Encourage, Assist and Carry on, Orphanages, Crushes, Youth welfare institutions, Welfare hostels for women, Students old age care centers, Councelling centers, Educational institutions, Health care institutions for human, Animals, Birds and Plants.

e)I To conduct training centers in various service sectors.

f) To start conduct Processing, Marketing, trade Import Export to assure Food security including Vegetables, Fruits such as Food grains.

g) To start production Centres, Processing and Marketing activities in cosmetics, toiletries, stationaries, Furniture, Fabrication items for domestic purpose and Eco friendly living.

h) To start production centres Processing and Marketing activities in Electrical and Electronics items, Precious metals and vessels to commit social necessity and ecofriendly living.

i) To start Conduct, Centres the promotion of Eco tourism and allied sectors except rural Transport

j) For further once of all of any of the aforesaid objects the institution shall have authority

1) To solicit obtain or accept subscription, donation, grants, gifts bequests and trusts from any person, firm, Bank or local authorities or corporate bodies like khadi and Village Industries commission and or State KVI Board and ,or any institution and or the union/ State Government.

2) To acquire by gift, purchases, exchange, lease on hire or otherwise howsoever, any land, building, easements and any property movable and/ or immovable and for any estate or interest for the furtherance of all or any of the objects of the institution.

3) To build, construct and maintain houses, structures or buildings and alter extend improve, repair, enlarge or modify the same including any existing buildings ( and or provide and equip the same with light, water drainage furniture, fittings, instruments, apparatus and appliances) and all other necessities for the use to, which such buildings is to be put up or held.

4) To sell, manage transfer exchange mortgage, demise, lease or let out dispose of or otherwise deal with the properties whatever (movable or immovable) belonging to the institution.

5) To borrow and raise moneys with or without security or mortgage charge  hypothecation, or pledge over all or any of the immovable or movable properties belonging to the institution or in any other manner whatsoever

6) To open and operate accounts in Bank/s or to deal with banks in any manner whatsoever required, for furtherance of objects of the institution.

7) To open and conduct branches and to undertake such other activities for furtherance of all or any of the objects of the institution.

k) To do all other lawful things incidental or conductive to the attainment of any other objects of the institution and to incur necessary expenditure there on.

l) The profits of the institution shall be utilised in furtherance of the objects of the institution and shall not be distributed amongst the members.

6) The management of the affairs of the institution shall be entrusted to the duly constituted managing committee as provided in the rules and regulations of the institution from time to time.
